As a man who throughout his entire life lusted
for unlimited power, Palpatine seemed to not
genuinely care for anything or anyone else
but attaining said goal.
However there may have been at least one person
Palpatine actually did care for and perhaps
even love in his life.
Her name was Sly Moore, a reserved Umbaran
female who’s life was surrounded by rumors
as the public believed that she and Emperor
Palpatine had a romantic relationship with
each other.
With some of them going as far as giving her
the unofficial title of “Queen of the Empire”.
These rumors seemed to be based off of Palpatine’s
public interactions with Sly Moore, as they
were kind of seen as a couple at times.
We actually get a glimpse of said couple like
interaction from them in Episode 3, where
right before Anakin enters Palpatine's private
Opera house chamber, we see him and Sly Moore
laughing together as they sat next to each
other enjoying the show.
Also apparently Sly Moore was the mother of
Palpatine’s secret son, Triclops, who was
created after she supposedly impregnated herself
with Palpatine's DNA.
So what made her so special and why did Palpatine
seem to care for her so much, and why did
she herself seem to care so much for him?
Well this possibly might have to do with how
they first met and their relationship afterwards.
When she was born, Sly Moore was said to have
been force sensitive.
But before the Jedi Order could take her,
she was instead kidnapped by Darth Maul on
orders of Palpatine, presumably so the force
sensitive child could be used for dark side
experiments.
Experiments that took place within the asteroid
Cron Drift where she was subjected to ancient
Sith Lord spirits that mentally and spiritually
assaulted her.
Despite being forced to undergo this torment
for months, she remained sane as her strong
will pushed her through the dark side experiments.
Perhaps after seeing how strong she was, Palpatine
decided to take her under his wing and forge
her into a powerful assist of his.
He did this by staging a rescue mission for
her, to which under the guise of the humble
Senator from Naboo, Palpatine made it look
like he rescued her from the asteroid, making
her believe that he had no connection to the
original kidnappers.
After nursing her back to health, Palpatine
took care of her and began educating her in
politics, all the while keeping her a secret
and safe from potential enemies.
An interesting contrast with how he treated
her compared to Darth Maul.
Where with Darth Maul Palpatine went out of
his way to abuse the poor Zabrak and to constantly
remind him with the fact of how little he
cared for him, while with Sly Moore he treated
her as if she were his daughter.
Anyway, over the years they formed a strong
sense of trust among each other, so much so,
that Palpatine eventually revealed to her
that he was force sensitive just like her
and that he was in fact a Sith Lord.
Though it’s unknown if he told her that
he was the one who ordered her kidnapping
when she was younger.
He eventually told her of his plan to take
over the galaxy, and after she proclaimed
eternal loyalty to him, Palpatine had her
become one of his most trusted aides in the
Galactic Senate.
When he became Supreme Chancellor of the Republic,
Moore quickly ascended to the position of
Senior Administrative Aide where she could
be remain at his side at all times.
It was later rumored that Moore blackmailed
the previous Staff Aide Sei Taria into stepping
down so that she could take her place.
As Staff Aide her duties consisted of helping
organize the Chancellor's schedules, meeting
with other figures on behalf of the Chancellor,
taking notes on the Chancellor's meetings
and ideas, as well as helping form policy
to be presented to the senate.
On top of her formal duties, she was also
entrusted by Palpatine to use her force sensitivity
and her native species’ natural mind-clouding
abilities to impersonate Darth Sidious whenever
he needed her to do so.
And Palpatine did this as a means to convince
his pawns that he and Darth Sidious were separate
people, as when Moore was impersonating Darth
Sidious and communicating with his minions,
Palpatine would make sure he was somewhere
in the public around the same time to make
it seem like they both were at separate places
at the same time.
So none of his minions could ever imagine
linking the two together.
After the formation of the Empire, Sly Moore
was one of the first members to be appointed
to the Imperial Ruling Council, which acted
as the Emperor’s inner circle.
It was around this time that the public began
to believe that she and Palpatine had a romantic
relationship going on, due to how close she
was to him and how they acted around each
other.
One of her first duties in the Empire was
to oversee the training of captured Jedi padawans
and other force sensitives on the planet Byss,
where they were converted and trained to become
dark side servants of the Emperor.
She had them tortured and pitted against each
other if they refused to submit, with some
even being killed if they refused to serve
the Empire.
On top of that, she was also interested in
Dark side experiments.
She was in a way inspired by Palpatine’s
old master, Darth Plagueis, wishing to continue
his tests involving manipulating midi-chlorians
to create life.
Apparently her experiments with the manipulations
of midi-chlorians was how she created Palpatine's
son, by using his midi-chlorian rich DNA to
impregnate herself so she could give birth
to a powerful being.
It was rumored that when she became pregnant
from the DNA, that she retired to her home
planet Umbara where she died when giving birth
to Triclops.
Which if true would explain why Palpatine
disliked his son so much, to the point of
making him into a slave and sending him to
the spice mines after his many failures of
being trained as a dark sider.
As he was the cause of his lover’s death.
But then again those were just rumors, so
Sly Moore’s ultimate fate is left unknown.
Now it’s possible that Palpatine loved Sly
Moore not only because he raised her up himself
like she were his daughter, but also because
they had very similar personalities.
Umbarans were naturally known to be very manipulative
people who craved power and influence.
Just like Palpatine.
But they were also known for having a very
dark sense of humor, so much so that ordinary
beings tended to be disgusted by their jokes.
But Palpatine was clearly no ordinary being,
and he actually had a
very dark sense
of humor himself, to th